Merged Cloud working locally and working with VS article (#4177)
umbraco/UmbracoDocs: Umbraco-Cloud/Set-Up/Working-Locally/index.md

# Working with a Local Clone of an Umbraco Cloud Site

To work with a local copy of your site, you'll need to use Windows with a local web server installed (like WebMatrix/IIS). If you're using Mac, see the [Working with Mac](../Working-With-UaaS-Cli/) article. In this article, you will find:

- [Video Tutorial](#video-tutorial)
- [Cloning an Umbraco Cloud Project](#cloning-an-umbraco-cloud-project)
- [Running the Site Locally](#running-the-site-locally)
- [Working with Visual Studio](#working-with-visual-studio)
    - [Adding a Solution File to your Cloud Project](#adding-a-solution-file-to-your-cloud-project)
    - [Adding Additional Projects to your Solution](#adding-additional-projects-to-your-solution)
- [Renaming the Project Files and Folders](#renaming-the-project-files-and-folders)

## Video Tutorial

<iframe width="800" height="450" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/e3spd6Nqrf8?rel=0" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## Cloning an Umbraco Cloud Project

To clone an Umbraco cloud project, follow these steps:

1. On the Umbraco Cloud portal, **Go to the project** you wish to clone.

> 2. Click on the arrow next to the **Development** environment and select **Clone project**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Click on the arrow next to the **Development** environment.
3. Select **Clone project**.
```

   ![Clone project option](images/clone-project-option.png)

> 3. **Copy** the clone URL to copy the development environment's git repository endpoint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. **Copy** the clone URL to copy the Development environment's git repository endpoint.
```

    ![Copy the clone URL](images/copy-clone-url.png)

> 4. Go to the location on your local machine where you wish to clone the project.
> 5. Clone the repository using your favorite Git client. For example: [Fork](https://git-fork.com/), [SourceTree](https://www.sourcetreeapp.com/), [Git Extensions](https://gitextensions.github.io), [GitKraken](https://www.gitkraken.com/), etc. For this article, I'll use **Git Bash**.

Reviewer: How about moving the section about the git clients to a "Tip" below or above the steps?
Or perhaps mention it in a "Prerequisites" or "Tools" section at the top of the article, like we do in this article: https://our.umbraco.com/documentation/Umbraco-Cloud/Getting-Started/Migrate-Existing-Site/#2-tools

Also, I've suggested to merged steps 4 and 5, to simplify the process a bit. Hope it still makes sense!

```suggestion
5. Use your favorite Git client to clone down the project. In this guide, we will continue to use **Git Bash**.
```

> 6. In the **Git Bash** terminal, type the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Type out the following command in the Git Bash terminal:
```

   ```cs
   git clone <Git clone URL>
   ```

>     where the `<Git clone URL>` is the URL you copied from the cloud development environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The `<Git clone URL>` should be the URL you copied from the Cloud Development environment.
```

    ![Git Bash Terminal](images/git-bash-terminal.png)

7. Press **Enter**.

> 8. Once the project has been cloned down, you will get a folder either with the cloud project name or the name you gave the project.
> 
>     ![Cloned Project](images/cloned-project.png)
> 
> 9. Now, you have an exact copy of your Umbraco Cloud Development environment that you can run locally.

Reviewer: As the last two steps aren't really steps, but more information, I've removed them as steps.

Also, a few comments to this:

* What does "the name you gave the project" mean? Can you rename it in the cloning down process, or what other name are you referring to here?
* You will not have an "exact" copy yet, as only the schema has been cloned down, and not yet the content, right?

```suggestion
Once the project has been cloned down, you will get a folder either with the Cloud project name or the name you gave the project.

![Cloned Project](images/cloned-project.png)

Now, you have an exact copy of your Umbraco Cloud Development environment that you can run locally.
```

Author: - In the original article, while using Fork, the name of the project had to be entered which is optional in git bash as it takes the cloud project name. I will rephrase it as "Once the project has been cloned down, you will get a folder with files for your Umbraco Cloud project."
- Yes correct, I removed the word exact.

## Running the Site Locally

> To run Umbraco locally, you will need to [install the latest .NET SDK](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download) (if you do not have this already).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To run your Umbraco Cloud project locally, you will need to [install the latest .NET SDK](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download) if you do not have this already.
```

With dotnet installed, run the following commands in a terminal application of your choice. You can also refer to the `Readme` file in the project folder.

> 1. Navigate to the newly created project folder and then run the following commands:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Navigate to the newly created project folder.
2. Run the following command:
```

    ```cs
    cd src/UmbracoProject
    ```

> 2. Build and run the new Umbraco .Net Core project:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Build and run the project:
```

    ```cs
    dotnet build
    dotnet run
    ```

3. The terminal output will show the application starting up and will include localhost URLs which you can use to browse to your local Umbraco site.

>     ![Terminal Output](images/terminal-output.png)

Reviewer: This is not really a step, but information.
Consider if it makes sense to have this as part of the list. Could it perhaps be a note instead?

4. We recommend to setup a developer certificate and run the website under HTTPS. If you haven't configured one already, run the following dotnet command:

    ```cs
    dotnet dev-certs https --trust
    ```

5. The first time the project is run locally, you will see the **Restore from Umbraco Cloud** screen.

    If the environment you have cloned already contains Umbraco Deploy metadata files (such as Document Types, Templates, etc), these are automatically extracted with the option to restore content from the Cloud environment into the local installation.

>     ![clone dialog](images/restorecontent.jpg)

Reviewer: There is a lot of information in these steps.
Consider if it makes sense to split them up, add them as notes or perhaps add them as paragraphs instead and end the step-by-step for a moment.

Ideally the step-by-step shouldn't be interrupted by a lot of information, it should be more like "just do it".
The information can be placed somewhere else where it makes sense.

So perhaps instead of steps 4-6 here, there are two steps:
4. Setup developer certificates
5. Choose the "Restore" option to... etc., etc.

## Working with Visual Studio

When working locally, we recommend using Visual Studio but you can use any other development tool of your choice.

1. Once the project has been cloned down, you will get a folder either with files for your Umbraco Cloud project.

    ![Umbraco 9 files](images/V9-files.png)

2. Navigate to `src/UmbracoProject`. Here, you will find the files for your Umbraco installation.

    ![Umbraco 9 files](images/V9-project-file.png)

3. Open the `UmbracoProject.csproj` file in Visual Studio and start building and running your solution in Visual studio.

4. You can create content, add media, create your own custom code. When you're ready to deploy your changes make sure to have a look at the [deployments](../../Deployment/index.md) documentation.

    :::note
    If you have more than "a few" media items, see our recommendations for working with [Media on Umbraco Cloud](../Media/index.md).
    :::

### Adding a Solution File to your Cloud Project

Working with Visual Studio, you will likely want a solution file, so you and your team can work with an Umbraco Cloud project and have the option to add additional projects.

> If you want to a solution File to your Cloud project, you can do it either:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to add a solution File for your Cloud project, you can do it either:
```

![Terminal Output](images/terminal-output.png)

:::note

> We recommend setting up a developer certificate and running the website under HTTPS. If you haven't configured one already, run the following dotnet command:

Author: This is actually an optional step and can be run anytime (before or after). It's not a mandatory step. 
Maybe I'll change it to a tip cz it's upto the user if he wants to run the local site securely (https) or not (http) 😀
